VMDP doc set (#111284)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-vmdp-installing-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/oadp-vmdp/oadp-using-vmdp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-vmdp-installing-cli_{context}"]
= Installing the {oadp-short} VMDP CLI

[role="_abstract"]

> Install the {oadp-short} VM data protection (VMDP) command-line tool inside your virtual machine (VM) to back up and restore data. This helps you to download the correct binary for your VM guest operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the {oadp-full} virtual machine data protection (VMDP) command-line interface (CLI) inside your VM to back up and restore data. This helps you to download the correct binary for your VM guest operating system.
```

235 characters

.Procedure

. Get the cluster IP of the VMDP download server by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get svc -n openshift-adp openshift-adp-vmdp-server
----
+
Make a note of the `CLUSTER-IP` value from the output.

. For Linux VMs, download the VMDP binary and make it executable inside the VM by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ virtctl ssh <vm_user>@<vm_name> -n <vm_namespace> \
  --command "curl -kLf 'http://<cluster_ip>:80/download/oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64' \
  -o oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64 && chmod +x oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64"
----
+
where:

`<vm_user>`:: Specifies the username for the VM. For example, `fedora`.
`<vm_name>`:: Specifies the name of the VM.
`<vm_namespace>`:: Specifies the namespace of the VM.
`<cluster_ip>`:: Specifies the `CLUSTER-IP` value of the `openshift-adp-vmdp-server` service.

. For Microsoft Windows VMs, access the VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) or the VNC console, open PowerShell, and download the VMDP binary by running the following command:
+
[source,powershell]
----
PS> curl.exe -L -o oadp-vmdp.exe "http://<cluster_ip>:80/download/oadp-vmdp_windows_amd64.exe"
----
+

> Replace `<cluster_ip>` with the `CLUSTER-IP` value of the `openshift-adp-vmdp-server` service.

Reviewer: Because the steps are numbered, right now the instructions read the user must do both steps 2 and 3 regardless of their OS. I'd suggest to turn steps 2 and 3 into substeps of one shared step, WDYT? Perhaps something like this:

```suggestion
. Install the VMDP CLI:

** For Linux VMs, download the VMDP binary and make it executable inside the VM by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ virtctl ssh <vm_user>@<vm_name> -n <vm_namespace> \
  --command "curl -kLf 'http://<cluster_ip>:80/download/oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64' \
  -o oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64 && chmod +x oadp-vmdp_linux_amd64"
----
+
where:

`<vm_user>`:: Specifies the username for the VM. For example, `fedora`.
`<vm_name>`:: Specifies the name of the VM.
`<vm_namespace>`:: Specifies the namespace of the VM.
`<cluster_ip>`:: Specifies the `CLUSTER-IP` value of the `openshift-adp-vmdp-server` service.

** For Microsoft Windows VMs, access the VM by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) or the VNC console, open PowerShell, and download the VMDP binary by running the following command:
+
[source,powershell]
----
PS> curl.exe -L -o oadp-vmdp.exe "http://<cluster_ip>:80/download/oadp-vmdp_windows_amd64.exe"
----
+
Replace `<cluster_ip>` with the `CLUSTER-IP` value of the `openshift-adp-vmdp-server` service.
```

.Verification

> * For Linux VMs, verify that the binary is installed and working by running the following command:

Reviewer: Same here, I'd combine them into one single verification step with unnumbered substeps, WDYT?

Author: done.
